badminton is a racquet sport played using racquets to hit a shuttlecock across a net. although it may be played with larger teams, the most common forms of the game are "singles" (with one player per side) and "doubles" (with two players per side). badminton is often played as a casual outdoor activity in a yard or on a beach; professional games are played on a rectangular indoor court. points are scored by striking the shuttlecock with the racquet and landing it within the other team's half of the court, within the set boundaries.

each side may only strike the shuttlecock once before it passes over the net. play ends once the shuttlecock has struck the floor or ground, or if a fault has been called by the umpire, service judge, or (in their absence) the opposing side.[1]

the shuttlecock is a feathered or (in informal matches) plastic projectile that flies differently from the balls used in many other sports. in particular, the feathers create much higher drag, causing the shuttlecock to decelerate more rapidly. shuttlecocks also have a high top speed compared to the balls in other racquet sports, making badminton the fastest racquet sport in the world. the flight of the shuttlecock gives the sport its distinctive nature, and in certain languages the sport is named by reference to this feature (e.g., german federball, literally feather-ball).

the game developed in british india from the earlier game of battledore and shuttlecock. european play came to be dominated by denmark but the game has become very popular in asia, with recent competitions dominated by china. in 1992, badminton debuted as a summer olympic sport with four events: men's singles, women's singles, men's doubles, and women's doubles;[2] mixed doubles was added four years later. at high levels of play, the sport demands excellent fitness: players require aerobic stamina, agility, strength, speed, and precision. it is also a technical sport, requiring good motor coordination and the development of sophisticated racquet movements involving much greater flexibility in the wrist than some other racquet sports.[3]
